---
layout: post
title: "GSoC ’17 Post #4: End of Phase 2"
modified:
categories: blog
excerpt: ""
tags: []
image:
  feature:
share: true
date: 2017-07-24
---
The Phase 2 finally comes to an end. However, we're so far so good.

## What has been done ?
We've introduced 3 new bears in our codebase :

#### ArtisticStyleBear
A source code indenter, formatter and beautifier for the C, C++, C++/CLI,
Objective-C, C# and Java programming languages. The coolest part being, it can
suggest patches and modify your source code accordingly. All you have to do it
just configure it as per your needs.

#### TravisLintBear
A validator for your ``.travis.yml`` that attempts to reduce
common build errors such as invalid YAML, missing language key,
deprecated features or runtime,
unsupported runtime versions of Ruby, PHP, OTP, etc.

#### PugLintBear
A configurable linter and style checker for ``Pug``
(formerly ``Jade``) that is a clean, whitespace-sensitive template language for
writing HTML.

---

#### Enrichments applied to the codebase
We've enhanced the `MarkdownBear` by adding crucial plugins like `remark-lint`
and `remark-validate-links`. The bear will now have increased functionality
and report useful messages.

An upsteam release was causing a build failure for the `RubocopBear`. Pinning
was used as the temporary solution to the problem. The source
of the problem was investigated and the corresponding patch was submitted.
`RubocopBear` now uses the latest version (i.e. `0.49.1`) of the underlying
linter.

The `LocalBearTestHelper` class has been improved and we're now able to print
`stdout` and `stderr` when linter bears fail to execute.

Finally, all the dependencies have been added to docker to prevent test
failures.

## What lies ahead ?
The testing API is almost done and a couple of bears need to be implemented
during Phase 3. Also https://coala.io/languages needs to be updated in order
to make my contributions visible to the fellow users. That's all for today
and I'll see you guys in the next blog.
